Jenkins

troubleshooting jenkins - https://www.cidevops.com/2018/08/

1. What is Jenkins? What have you used it for?
Jenkins is an open source automation tool written in Java with plugins built for Continuous Integration purpose. 
Jenkins is used to build and test your software projects continuously making it easier for developers to integrate changes to the project, and making it
easier for users to obtain a fresh build. It also allows you to continuously deliver your software by integrating with a large number of testing and 
deployment technologies.

Jenkins integrates development life-cycle processes of all kinds, including build, document, test, package, stage, deploy, static analysis and much more.

2. What are the advantages of Jenkins over its competitors? Can you compare it to one of the following systems?
https://www.tutorialandexample.com/advantages-and-disadvantages-of-jenkins
Travis
Bamboo
Teamcity
CircleCI


3. What are the limitations or disadvantages of Jenkins?

This might be considered to be an opinionated answer:

Old fashioned dashboards with not many options to customize it
Containers readiness (this has improved with Jenkins X)
By itself, it doesn't have many features. On the other hand, there many plugins created by the community to expand its abilities
Managing Jenkins and its piplines as a code can be one hell of a nightmare

4.
Job is an automation definition = what and where to execute once the user clicks on "build"
Build is a running instance of a job. You can have one or more builds at any given point of time (unless limited by confiugration)
A worker is the machine/instance on which the build is running. When a build starts, it "acquires" a worker out of a pool to run on it.
An executor is variable of the worker, defining how many builds can run on that worker in parallel. An executor value of 3 means, that 3 builds can run at 
any point on that executor (not necessarily of the same job. Any builds)

5. What plugins have you used in Jenkins?

a. JavaMelody - used to monitoring the jenkins http, cpu, load and It also delivers information about head dumps, logs account, and other data. 
One can check the status of jobs under consideration. It also provides statistics to manage Jenkins

b. Amazon ECS Container Service This plugin is used for the deployment of cluster-based Docker applications and Jenkins handling

c. Build Pipeline Plugin: This plugin delivers a job view that makeup builds a pipeline, downstream and also upstream. This plugin makes pipelines scriptable
and provides a strong avenue to develop complex DevOps pipelines.It enables a user to define manual triggers to a certain task that may need inversion 
before execution.

d. Git Plugin: As an SCM, It provides access to GitHub. For many other providers, it acts as a repository browser.

e. Mailer
f. Test results analyzer
g. junit
h. ssh
i. ansible

6. Have you used Jenkins for CI or CD processes? Can you describe them?

7. What type of jobs are there? Which types have you used?

Freestyle Project
Pipeline
Multiconfiguration Projects
Folder
GitHub organization
Mutlibranch Pipeline


8. )  How did you report build results to users? What ways are there to report the results?

You can report via:

Emails
Messaging apps
Dashboards
Each has its own disadvantages and advantages. Emails for example, if sent too often, can be eventually disregarded or ignored.

9. You need to run unit tests every time a change submitted to a given project. Describe in details how your pipeline would look like and what will be executed in each stage

The pipelines will have multiple stages:

Clone the project
Install test dependencies (for example, if I need tox package to run the tests, I will install it in this stage)
Run unit tests
(Optional) report results (For example an email to the users)
Archive the relevant logs/files

10. How to secure Jenkins?
