1.What is Jenkins and its features?

  it is an open-source server that allows all the developers to build, test and deploy software. It works or runs on java as it is written in java. 
  By using Jenkins we can make a continuous integration of projects(jobs) or end-to-endpoint automation.

2.Jenkins pipleine job ?
3.Scripted and declarative pipeline ?

  https://medium.com/globant/jenkins-pipeline-declarative-vs-scripted-21f8688ee16a

4.How to configure job in jenkins?
5.Circuit breaker in jenkins pieline ?
6.What is groovy scripting ?
7.How is Github repo url used in jenkins pipeline script ?
8.what is ansible and how it is different from other tools?
9.what are handlers in ansible ?

  In Ansible, handlers are just like any regular tasks. The difference between handlers and regular tasks is that handlers only run when 'notified'
  using the notify directive. Handlers are usually used to start, restart, reload and stop services on target nodes only when 
  there is a change in the state of the task, and not when no change is made

10.diff between ansible handlers and modules ?

  Modules represent distinct units of code, each one with specific functionality. Basically, they are standalone scripts written for a particular job and 
  are used in tasks as their main functional layer.

  We build Ansible modules to abstract complexity and provide end-users with an easier way to execute their automation tasks without needing all the details.
  This way, some of the cognitive load of more complex tasks is abstracted away from Ansible users by leveraging the appropriate modules. 

11.How to execute playbooks parallely in 100 nodes?

  adding 100nodes to inventory or host file
  
  The easiest method would be to split the playbook in different.yml files, and execute each from a different terminal. Or run them with the ansible-parrelel pip package.

12.What is a web server?

  A web server is a computer or a program that stores, processes, and delivers website files or web pages to users over the internet12345. 
  It uses HTTP and other protocols to respond to client requests145. A web server can have a hardware and a software side, with each having a 
  specific role123. A web server can also support other services like email and file transfer5

13.How http requests works?

  HTTP is an application layer protocol built on top of TCP that uses a client-server communication model. HTTP clients and servers communicate through
  request and response messages. 
  The three main HTTP message types are GET, POST, and HEAD.

14.Https and Http ?
15.what is SSL handshake ?

  client hello - server hello -authentication and pre-master key - decryption master key - encryption master key
  

16.AWS EC2 features?

  global infrastructure - Cost and Capacity Optimization - storage - networking - maintanance - os 

17.AWS VPC creation and subnets ?
18.Auto scaling group in AWS, its policies.
19.AWS cloudwatch

  AWS CloudWatch does not collect the memory metrics from the EC2 Instances. In order, to get the memory usage we need to need to install the CloudWatch 
  Agent on EC2 Instance. In this blog, we will install the AWS CloudWatch agent using AWS System Manager & collect memory metrics in the AWS CloudWatch 
  console, after that we will create an alarm in AWS CloudWatch which will send an alert email notification when the memory usage goes above 75% using 
  AWS SNS topic.

20.what is routing , how it works ?

  ROUTING is the process of selecting a path through an internetwork over which to transmit packets to a destination host or hosts and then having devices 
  called routers forward the packets to those hosts. For routing to occur, a routable protocol such as TCP/IP or IPX/SPX must be used.

21.Various Record types ?

  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_DNS_record_types#:~:text=Resource%20records%20%20%20%20Type%20%20,Unique%20Identifier%20...%20%2018%20more%20rows%20

22.How DNS works ?
23.Howb does web browser communicate with Web server ?
24.What is a kernel ? where it resides ?
25.How do you sort webserver logs based on different status codes and ip addresses ?

  awk, grep, tail 

26.How to check file size in linux?

  du -h test

27.diff between user and groups in linux ?

  User is an account, either for real person or a daemon software. You can log in with your user account, or others using su. 
  Groups can be thought of as levels of privilege. A person who is part of a group can view or modify files belonging to that group, depending on the
  permissions of that file

28.How do you clear disk space in linux ?

  sudo yum autoremove, sudo yum clean all

29.how to identify which file is consuming more space ?

    du -a /dir/ | sort -n -r | head -n 20.
     du -hsx * | sort -rh | head -10

30.What is Application server ?

  
What Does Application Server Mean? An application server is a type of server designed to install, operate and host applications and associated services for end users, IT services and organizations.

31.What is CIDR ?
32.What is a load balancer and how it works ?
